the cabin has always been about a place
for the family to get away to it's off
grid and water access and in the
wintertime we walk in we're in Ontario
in an area called the Kawarthas it's a
interesting area sometimes called the
land between because it's situated
between the st. Lawrence lowlands and
the Canadian Shield
we've owned the property for about seven
years and we've been building the
cottage for the past five it's really
been a interesting journey with my
family the kids have been growing up
working on it I came up with the initial
design based on a clear spot in the
woods an area of bare rock where minimal
disturbance was needed to build the
cottage the triple roof system was
designed to cut rainwater and divert it
to the main roof in the middle as there
was no well on the property
catching rainwater was the only way to
get water to it without pumping it from
the lake we decided to attach the
building with piers drilled directly
into the bedrock there's very little
soil and this was a very secure way of
attaching it we used a stick framing
method because I was familiar with it
having renovated a couple houses and all
the material was brought about 130 feet
from the lake edge and about 60 feet in
elevation from the Lake Shore to the
building site by hand up this zip line
that we built
in the first summer where we built these
two platforms they would serve as the
base for the two sections of the
building
while we were building the cottage we
stated in our little bunkie which was a
10 by 10 structure that we could stay in
while we were building and we had an
outdoor kitchen
our task for this summer was to get one
side of the building framed in and a
roof on the idea of having two sections
to the college was twofold one to allow
us to build one section one year and one
section the next summer and two to
provide the kind of public area on one
side and private bedroom area on the
other everything came up from the lake
originally pulled by hand but my
father-in-law quickly got tired of that
and came up with this police system
unfortunately the roofing was too long
to go up that way so it had to be
carried up
putting it down
as the weather started to get a bit
colder we got all the windows in the
house strap on and we're able to move
out of the bunkie and start spending
more time in this first part of the
cabin after a lot of complaints from
people carrying materials up the rock I
decided I better get some stairs
installed and make it a lot easier
the kids are really learning a lot their
hands getting hands-on experience with
some stuff that a lot of kids our age
would never do and that really was part
of the idea work stopped in the winter
but we certainly still went up and had a
lot of fun even though there was no heat
in the cottage yet just having a dry
place to go and cook some meals and hang
out was really nice well spring came
back and it was time to get back to work
for some of us anyway
you
we finally got a couple the windows we
ordered and we're able to install them
this spring and getting yet another load
of lumber that has to go across the lake
and up the hill everything goes on a
barge that we built and gets towed
across then at the bottom of the hill it
gets unloaded and loaded on to the lifts
easily half of our workload was moving
materials from the landing here across
the lake up the hill to the building
site we'd probably spend at least 50% of
our time doing this but at least we
weren't pulling it by hand anymore and
there was always family on hand to help
us out this was a major upgrade hot
water
even though it was a pretty crude
outdoor shower everyone appreciated it
after a long day of work kids are
starting to get a hang of driving the
boat so I finally got the stairs between
the two levels together this is
temporary treads for now but it makes it
going up and down between the two
buildings a heck of a lot easier
we found these cabinets for 50 bucks on
Craigslist they're being torn out of a
house that was being torn down so we
scooped them up and brought them across
and like everything else they got to go
up the lift still lots of time to have
some fun though
in between weekends we would put the big
tarp on and hope for the best
although the framing got wet a few times
it was able to dry out a little cooking
outside kind of
but is starting it closed in here in the
kitchen area and by this time we're
staying in the first part that we built
[Music]
kids are still learning skills and being
allowed to do it more and more as we
teach them we had really excellent
weather for building the second half the
framing went up pretty quick and then we
got the OSB on the roof
once again the kids are picking up new
skills and getting really in there and
involved
what I didn't really appreciate at the
time was that building the cottage with
the kids really was the best way to
establish memories and to make them feel
that this was their place as much as
ours
you
my daughter became the expert at loading
the lift and she and I would work on it
at the bottom and send it up to my
in-laws and my wife and my son at the
top
the dry this end of the cottage got
quite a bit of work done this weekend
it's finally time for some insulation
the idea is this will be a basically a
three season cottage with some visits in
the winter but never long-term when it's
cold outside looking back it seems like
a ton of work but we kind of took it in
chunks and kept working at it and it
really does pay off this is us kind of
camping out in the first half of the
building that we built temporary
bedrooms temporary kitchen but bigger
than the bunkie
now the entire building is dried in and
we are insulating the whole thing lots
of critters visited us mostly outside
but the odd one would get in we hope to
make our time
now that the second side is also closed
in we're able to spread out and start
using all of the interior space I'm
trying to use a lot of materials from
the site so I'm doing here I'm doing
some stone work and experimenting and
learning the ideas that eventually all
encase all the peers in stone we decide
to use rough sawn 1x6 lumber as our
interior paneling it was economical and
it provided what we think is a really
nice cozy warm look although this seemed
to go quickly at times there was a lot
of fussy cutting and it really did drag
on
this is the only project that we didn't
do ourselves we had the folks that we
bought the glass garage door off of come
and install it it wasn't that expensive
and they were willing to make the boat
trip across the lake so we figured why
not
we were finally buttoned up and dried in
starting to bring over some furniture
and the wood stove this winter we'll
have a bit of heat definitely a welcome
addition on a cool fall eating nice fire
and insulation
[Music]
stop that you
we started with a 100 watt panel and a
couple of salvaged batteries as our
electrical system this was enough for a
couple lights and water pump for our
water heater this clip is from 2015 as
you can see the general outline of the
structure is complete and we got a begin
working on siding and exterior finishes
the bunkie also got an upgrade at this
time to let my father-in-law and
mother-in-law would have a place to stay
as they were up almost every weekend
helping us build I thought it was only
fair
beavers took this tree out it's we had
to finish the job but it did provide
some firewood which was nice hey you
guys trapped
after standing in on all six sides we
installed our siding vertically this is
called channel siding it looks like
reverse board and Mattin almost
these button head nails were really a
pain to hammer in and there are a lot of
sore thumbs this is a view of the
backside it's really starting to come
together now
you weren't smart enough to go through
there
[Music]
is certainly a lot bigger than it used
to be
we use the same metal that we'd use on
the roof on the upper portion of the
cottage to provide some contrast
[Music]
boo
spring of 2016 and it's cleaning out at
the water tank time and that fell to my
daughter this year
[Music]
this year we are tackling the ceiling
which was a ton of work lots of little
cuts and we got donated account from a
neighbor down the lake I decided to
again reuse the tin from the roof in the
bathroom as wainscoting
hey puppy this is the type of terrain
that our cottage is in lots of steep
rock falls waterfalls little Canyon
quite beautiful
we built our screen porch in the summer
of 2016 this was interesting because it
was more of a kind of post and beam
structure we had a lot of fun building
it
getting the floor and the frame up was
the better part of two days work
[Music]
this little guy flew in through our
garage door and up into my daughter's
loft
as usual we took a break now and again
caught a few and a few got away we
managed to find this same hole twice
[Music]
you
this drone shot from 2017 really gives
you a good feel for the land you can see
the lake and behind the cabin the beaver
pond
this year my son got the honors of
cleaning out the water tank
this summer we also tackled the kitchen
I was able to find these cabinets on
Craigslist for fifty dollars I took them
out of a house that was gonna be torn
down it took a bit of work and it was a
bit of a puzzle but I was able to fit
them in I also experimented with
concrete for countertops using some of
the quartz from the rock in the area I
think it turned out pretty well
[Applause]
yeah
what I do the front right oh god that's
so cool
[Music]
20:17 was also the year we got civilized
we installed our solar setup with
lithium batteries and now we have
lighting and best of all refrigeration
on-site
[Applause]
20 18 was about a lot of little projects
and trying not to start any new ones I
built an enclosure for our hot water
heater we wrapped our water barrel with
wood to make it look nicer and we put
away some firewood for next winter
we also spent some time improving the
trails around our property I really want
to make a loop that goes out beyond the
beaver pond I want to take a sec to
thank my father-in-law and my
mother-in-law and the rest of my family
who helped out you guys we could not
have made this place without you thank
you so much for all your help and it's
been a blast well it was finally time to
put away the docks for another year I
think we're all pretty happy with the
progress we've made over the last few
years I hope you enjoyed this video and
we'll see you next time on a Terre
lakeside
you